All right.
So in this quick lesson, we'll talk about the history of you, as well as some new features that were
introduced in its latest version, 3.0.
So the first major version of U 1.0 was released on October 26, 2015.
So the framework itself is over half a decade old, and that is good news.
That means to me that it's relatively stable and reliable.
It's held up in popularity over time, and the developers have had lots of time to fix bugs, to optimize
that view for speed and efficiency, to add new features, to listen to the community and get their
feedback and apply it, etc..
So Vue 2.0 was released about a year later in September 2016, and when I say 1.0 or 2.0, what I'm
referring to is what we call the major version numbers.
The major version number refers to the number before the decimal point.
So one or two or three in this case.
In comparison, the number after the decimal point is called the minor version number and typically
the assumption we make in software, it's not always correct, but it's generally true is that whenever
there is a new major version, a new greater number before the decimal point, that version typically
introduces new features or breaking changes or removes features, etc. It represents a more major change
to the core library or the core framework, right?
In comparison, a minor version number.
For example, there were a few versions like 2.1 and 2.2.
Those typically add some smaller improvements that don't necessarily break any existing code right there
minor because they're not as significant.
While major version changes may introduce breaking changes into your entire app.
And the only reason I mention this is as you're working through this course and as you're building your
own view apps, just keep in mind that upgrading, for example, from Vue three to View for whenever
it's released is probably going to be more significant than upgrading from Vue 3.0 to view 3.1.
Right.
That's just the way it typically works in software.
That's why those version numbers exist to communicate those details to you.
So Vue 3.0 was released in September 2020, so it took them four more years to release it.
And for the most part, it really offered a bunch of quality of life improvements.
But it also introduced a new way to build about to build your view components, your view code.
So let's talk about that a little bit more in this next slide.
So Vue three was built in TypeScript, which is a superset of JavaScript that includes types.
We're going to talk more extensively about TypeScript later in the course.
And as I mentioned, Vue three really added a lot of quality of life improvements under the hood.
So it had a decreased bundle size, which means the size of the NPM package is smaller.
It rendered things faster to your browser to review and it used up less memory on your computer.
So they basically made the library fast, right?
But the primary feature that Vue three added from a developer's perspective was something called the
Composition API, and it represents a new way to build Vue components.
Now I know we haven't talked about Vue components yet, but you can think of this as just your view
code and the syntax that it utilizes.
So Vue three allows you to write Vue code that is completely different from the way that Vue code used
to be written in V2.
Now the way we used to write code in V2 was called the Options API.
Now here's the way it works, and this may be a little bit confusing, but is actually kind of a good
for this course.
The composition API, the new one in Vue 3.0 does not replace the options API.
Rather it lives alongside it.
So just because we're going to be learning Vue three, because we're going to be learning the latest
version, does not mean we're going to skip learning about the older Vue two features the options API
that is still in the new version.
Vue three We're going to learn about both ways, both syntactical options to work with the View Library.
And of course we're going to be learning from the latest version because it's the one that has all the
features.
I want to make sure I introduce you to the way things can be done now, the way things used to be done.
And really there are advantages to using the options API at some times and there is advantages to using
the composition API at other times.
We're going to talk about those later in the course.
But the idea is there's now two ways to write Vue code.
Options API Composition API.
The View three version supports both of them and we're going to be learning about both them throughout
the course.
That's all there really is to cover in this lesson and the very next lesson, which is an optional one.
I want to quickly talk about the differences between Vue and other front end libraries like React and
Angular.
If you're curious about that, you can check the lesson out.
Otherwise, feel free to continue to the next lesson after that.
See you there.